Dear fellow practitioners, it's not that
we want to praise what is truly good,
but it's not easy. You see,
when good deeds are praised, it
takes a long time for people to
accept them.
Isn't that right, fellow practitioners? For
example, if someone always does
good deeds, it takes a while for their
good deeds to be recognized by the world. How long does that take?
Our Emperor Tran Nhan Tong
practiced two methods that our temple
is practicing: firstly, self-cultivation, which he
practiced
asceticism, a practice that the Buddhas have been practicing for many years;
secondly,
saving sentient beings through the Six Harmonies, which
we Buddhists practice. Therefore, it
must be said that Emperor Tran
Nhan
Tong's practice of these two methods allowed the true
Dharma to endure in the world. When
he practiced asceticism, the true
Dharma was widely praised and became
renowned. And when the people practiced the Six Harmonies, the
country was
very peaceful and tranquil. So we
must know that we have done well.  What do we gain
from this good deed, contributing to the
nation and its glorious history, my esteemed fellow
practitioners? Then we are
very honored, and it is a rare
opportunity to continue the path of the
Buddha and the Patriarchs. We practice the
asceticism and the Six Harmonious Principles, two practices that the
Buddha Shakyamuni highly praised, isn't that right, my esteemed fellow
practitioners? If
these two practices exist in the world, then the true
Dharma will endure for a long time. This is the Buddha's teaching,
and proof is that
our Emperor Tran Nhan Tong practiced and
propagated the Dharma using these two practices. Therefore, the
true Dharma has endured until now. Is
n't that good? Isn't that good now?
That is the result, that is the Buddha's teaching, which is
completely accurate, isn't it?
That is
our happiness. Therefore, I
affirm that we are practicing the right path
of the Buddha Shakyamuni, we are practicing very
correctly, and we Vietnamese people
have a
responsibility to highlight,
spread, or strengthen the
Vietnamese tradition, my
esteemed fellow practitioners.  Emperor Tran
Nhan Tong possessed both the traditions of
patriotism and liberation, didn't he, dear
fellow practitioners? Regarding patriotism and
liberation, some might
ask, "So, after becoming a monk, you still love your country
and fight?" No, if
every king and leader in the world
loved their country, would
n't they want their people to
fight? Emperor Tran Nhan Tong,
however, also wanted to fight.
A person who loves their country
doesn't want war, doesn't
want any of their children to go to
war. But those who constantly
lead armies to fight
don't love their people or their
country. Isn't that right? Our Emperor Tran Nhan
Tong was a patriot who loved his
people, and his spirit of peace is a
symbol of that. His actions
symbolized the breaking down of all hatred and
establishing relations with other countries in a
spirit of compassion. Therefore, Emperor Tran
Nhan Tong is a great example, a
great example indeed. That's why
we have a responsibility to ensure that...
The spirit of the Buddhist Emperor
is being praised and highlighted. So, how can we
highlight the
spirit of the Buddhist Emperor? Firstly, patriotism.
Secondly, we want to affirm
that Vietnam has a
long-standing cradle of Buddhism, and that the practice of Buddhism has
existed in Vietnam, has been proven in Vietnam, and its
value has been affirmed in
Vietnam through the spirit of practice and enlightenment. Following the Buddha's example,
abandoning the royal
palace, there is a figure in Vietnam who truly
followed the example of Shakyamuni Buddha,
abandoning the royal palace and all fame to go into the
mountains and forests to practice, attain enlightenment, and save sentient beings through the
Six Harmonies. The official result is
that in Vietnam, we
should call
him Buddhist Emperor Tran Nhan Tong, or Saint
Tran Nhan Tong, or King Tran
Nhan Tong, because he
inherited the true Buddhist teachings from our Shakyamuni Buddha. The true Dharma is
always present, isn't it, esteemed Buddhists? The
true Dharma is always present during the time of King Tran Nhan Tong,
Buddhism accompanied the nation, and
now we must still
think that way: Buddhism accompanies the
nation, and Shakyamuni Buddha also...  Buddhist teachings
always accompany each and
every person. The teachings of Buddha
abolish class distinctions, isn't that right? Compassion and
equality are what Buddhist teachings
aim to achieve: helping people
live good lives, a good society,
with love, sharing, and peace. Isn't that right?
See the spirit of Buddhist teachings like
[music] like
this
[music]